What do you think about Bitcoin?
What do you think it is a response to what are the growing problems of the Fiat
system?
What is this moment in human history that is full of challenges
that Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies trying to overcome?
I don't think Bitcoin was devised by Satoshi,
whoever he was for fear of
a breakdown of the Fiat currencies. If it was,
it was a very far sighted enterprise because certainly in 2008,
when the first Bitcoin paper appeared,
it wasn't very likely that a wave of inflation was coming. If anything,
there was more reason to fear deflation at that point,
I think it would be more accurate to say that with the
advent of the internet,
there was a need for a means of payment native to the internet,
typing your credit card number into random websites,
not the way to pay for things on the internet.
And I'd rather think of Bitcoin as the first iteration,
the first attempt to solve the problem of how do we pay for things in what we
must learn to call the metaverse,
but let's just call it the internet for all time's sake.
And ever since that initial, uh, innovation,
that realization that you could use computing power and cryptography to create
peer to peer payments without third party verification,
a revolution has been gathering momentum that poses a very profound threat to
the existing legacy system of banks and, and Viet currencies.
Most money in the world today is made by banks, north central banks, banks.
That's what most money is it's entries in bank accounts.
And what Bitcoin represents is an alternative mode of
payment that really ought to run the banks obsolete.
I think this financial revolution has got past the point at which it can be
killed. It was vulnerable in the early years,
but it now has sufficient adoption and has generated sufficient additional
layers. I mean, the theorem was in many ways, the more important innovation,
because you can build a whole system of,
of payments and ultimately smart contracts on top of ether.
I think we've now reached the point that it's pretty hard to imagine it all
being killed and it's just survived an amazing thing,
which was the Chinese shutting down mining and shutting down everything.
And still here we are. Uh, in fact, crypto is thriving.
What we don't know is how much damage ill judged
regulatory interventions are going to do to this financial revolution left to
its own devices.
I think decentralized finance provides the native
monitoring financial system for the internet.
And the more time we spend in the metaverse,
the more use we will make of the next things that will happen.
I think we'll be that tokens end game spaces like roadblocks will become
fungible as my nine-year-old spends a lot more time playing on
computer games than I ever did.
I can see the entertainment is becoming a game driven phenomenon.
And in the game space, you need skins for your avatar,
the economics of the internet. It's evolving very fast.
And in parallel, you can see this payments revolution happening.
I think that all that all goes naturally very well and generates an
enormous amounts of wealth and the process.
The problem is there are people in Washington with an
overwhelming urge to intervene and disrupt this evolutionary
process.
Partly I think out of a muddled sense that there must be a lot of
nefarious things going on. If we don't step in many more will go on this.
I think greatly exaggerates how much criminal activity is in fact going on in
the space, but there's also the vested interests at work.
It was odd to me, maybe not hard,
perhaps it wasn't surprising that the bank for international settlements earlier
this year published a report, a one chapter of which said, this must all go,
let's all stop. It's all gotta be shut down.
And it's gotta be replaced by central bank, digital currency and Martin Wolf.
And the financial times read this and said, I agree with this. And one Sunday,
he realized that the banks are clever.
They had they'd achieved the intellectual counter attack, uh,
with, uh, almost no fingerprints on the weapon.
I think central bank digital currency is a terrible idea.
I can't imagine why we would want to copy a Chinese model that essentially
takes all transactions and puts them directly under the surveillance of a
central government institution.
But that suddenly is a serious
counter-proposal. So on the one side, we have a relatively decentralized
technologically innovative internet native system of
payments that has the possibility to evolve, to produce a full sets of,
of smart contracts, reducing enormously.
The transaction costs that we currently encounter in the financial world,
because it gets rid of all those middleman who take that car every time you take
out a mortgage or whatever it is, that's one alternative. But on the other side,
we have a highly decentralized system in which transactions will by default be
under the surveillance of the central bank. It seems like an easy choice to me,
but Hey, I have this thing about personal Liberty.
So that's where we are. I don't think that the regulators can,
can kill a web three.
I think we're supposed to call it web three because crypto is now an obsolescent
term. They can't kill it,
but they can definitely make it difficult and throw a lot of sand into the
machine. And I think worst of all,
they can spoil the evolutionary story by,
by creating central bank digital currency that I don't think we really need, or
we certainly don't need it in the Chinese form.
The, do you think Bitcoin has a strong chance to take over the world?
So become the primary.
You mentioned the three things that make money,
money that become the primary methodology by which we store
wealth. We exchange.
No, no. I think what Bitcoin is,
this was a phrase that I got from my friend, Matt McLennan, first Eagle,
an option on digital gold. So it's the gold of the system,
but currently it behaves like an option.
That's why it's quite volatile because we don't really know if this brave new
world of crypto is going to work, but if it does work,
then Bitcoin's the gold because of the finite supply,
what role we need gold to play in the metaverse isn't quite
clear.
I love that you're using the term metaverse this is great.
Well, I, I, I just liked the Metta Versity as a kind of, uh,
as the antithesis of what we're trying to do and in Austin, but I love it.
Can you imagine I'm using it sarcastically?
I come from Glasgow where all novel words have to be used sarcastically.
So the metaverse sarcastic.
The beauty about humor and sarcasm is that the joke becomes
reality. I mean,
it's like using the word big bang to describe the origins of the universe.
It becomes like.
It will, after a while it's in the textbooks and nobody's laughing. Yeah. Well,
that's exactly right. So sticky. Yeah. Um,
I'm on the side of humor, but it is, uh, it is a dangerous activity these days.
Anyway, I think Bitcoin is, is the option of digital gold. The,
the role it plays is probably not so much store volume right
now. It's just nicely, not very correlated asset in your portfolio.
When I updated the sense of money, which was in 20 18,
10 years after it came out, I wrote a new chapter in which I said,
Bitcoin,
which had just sold off after its 2017 bubble will rise
again through adoption because if every millionaire in the world
has 0.2% of his or her wealth in Bitcoin,
the price should be $15,000.
If it's 1% it's $75,000 and it might not
even stay at 1% because I mean, look at its recent performance. If you,
if your exposure to stop Scoble stocks had been hedged with a
significant, uh, crypto holding,
you would have aced the last few months. Uh,
so I think the non-correlation property is very,
very important in driving adoption.
And the volatility also drives adoption if you're a sophisticated investor. Uh,
so I think the adoption drives, uh, uh,
Bitcoin up because it's the option of digital gold,
but it's also just this nicely,
not very correlated asset that you want to hold in in a world where the
hell, I mean, the banks everybody's going to tighten,
we've come through this massively disruptive episode of the pandemic,
public debt, sword, money printing sword.
You could hang around with your bonds and wait for the euthanasia of the wrong
TA. You can hang on to your tech stocks and just hope there isn't a massive
correction or dot.dot when,
and it seems like a fairly obvious strategy to make sure that you have at least
some crypto for the coming year given what we likely
have to face.
I think what's really interesting is that on top of Ethereum,
a more elaborate financial system is being
built.
Stable coins are the interesting puzzle for
me because we need off-ramps ultimately you and I have to pay
taxes in us dollars.
And there's no getting away from that.
The IRS is going to let us hold crypto as long as we pay our taxes.
And the only question in my mind is what's the optimal off-ramp
to make those taxes, make those tax payments.
Probably it shouldn't be a currency invented by Facebook.
Never struck me as the best solution to this problem.
Maybe it's some kind of fed coin, uh,
or maybe one of the existing algorithmic stable coins does the job,
but we clearly need some stable off ramp.
So you don't think as possible for the IRS within the next decade to be
accepting Bitcoin as tax payments.
I doubt that having dealt with the IRS knows since when did I first come
here 2002, it's hard to think of an institution,
less likely to reap into the 21st century when it
comes to payments. No, I think, I think will, we'll be,
we'll be tolerated.
Crypto world will be tolerated as long as we pay our taxes. That's the,
and it's important that we're already at that point.
And then the next question becomes well,
does Gary Gensler define everything as a security?
And do we then have to go through endless regulatory contortions to
satisfy the sec? There's a whole bunch of,
of uncertainties that the administrative state excels at creating because
that's just how that's how the administrative state works.
You'll do something new. Hmm. I'll decide whether that's a security,
but don't expect me to define it for you all decide in an arbitrary way and then
you'll owe me money. So all of this is going to be very annoying and, you know,
for people who are trying to run, uh, exchanges or, uh,
innovate in the space, these, these regulations will be annoying.
But the problem with FinTech is it's, it's different from tech broadly defined,
you know, when tech got into e-commerce with Amazon,
when it got into social networking with Facebook,
there wasn't a huge regulatory jungle to navigate,
but welcome to the world of finance,
which has always been a jungle of regulation because the regulation is,
is there to basically entrench the incumbents. That's what it's for.
So it'll be a much tougher fight than the fights we've.
We've seen of, uh,
other aspects of the tech revolution because the incumbents are,
are there and they see the threat. And in the end,
Satoshi said it very explicitly it's peer to peer payment with that third party
verification and all the third part is going, wait, what were the third parties?
So there is a connection between power and money.
You've mentioned world war one from the perspective of money.
So power, money,
war authoritarian regimes from the perspective
of money,
do you have hope that cryptocurrency can help resist war
can help resist the negative effects of
authoritarian regimes? Or is that a silly hope.
Wars happen?
Because the people who have the power to command
armed forces, miscalculate,
that's generally what happens.
And we will have a big war in the near future if both the Chinese government and
the U S government miscalculates and they unleash lethal lethal
force on one another.
And there's nothing that any financial institution can do to stop that
any more than the Ross cults could Rothschilds could stop world war one.
And they were then the biggest bank in the world by far with massive
international financial influence.
So let's accept that war is isn't a different domain.
War would impact the financial world massively if it were a war
between the United States and China,
because there's still a huge China trade on
wall street as long China, Europe as long China.
So the conflict that I could foresee in the future is one that's highly
financially disruptive. Where does crypto fit in?
Crypto's obvious utility in the short run is as a store
of wealth of transferrable wealth for people who live in
dangerous places with failing, not just failing money,
but failing rule of law. That's why in Latin America,
there's so much interest in crypto because Latin Americans have a lot of
monetary history to look back on and not much of it is good.
So I think that the short run problem that crypto solves
is, and this goes back to the digital gold points.
If you are in a dangerous place with weak rule of law,
weak property rights here is a new and better way to
have portable wealth.
I think the next question to ask is,
would you want to be long crypto in the events of world war three?
What's interesting about that question is that world war three would likely have
a significant cyber dimension to it.
And I don't want to be a hundred percent in crypto if they crashed the internet,
which between them, China and Russia might be able to do.
That's a fascinating question.
Whether you want to be holding physical gold or digital gold in the event of
war.
Or three, the smart person who studied history definitely wants better both.
And so let's imagine world war three has a very,
very severely cyber component to it with high levels of disruption. Yeah.
You'd be glad of the old field shiny stuff at that point.
So diversification still seems like the most important
truth of a financial history and what is crypto.
It's just this wonderful new source of diversification,
but you'd be nuts to be a hundred percent in Bitcoin. I mean, I, I,
I have some friends who are probably quite close to that close to a hundred
percent Mar the, I admire the bowls of steel.